---
layout: page
subheadline: "by Charlotte Newell"
title: "Abandon"
teaser: "This post starts our first ever literature entry! Be sure to comment on the bottom of the page and contact us if you'd like to enter your own musings."
header:
    image_fullwidth: "header_typewriter.jpg"
    caption: Image by Florian Klauer
    caption_url: "http://florianklauer.de/"
image:
    thumb:  typewriter-thumb.jpg
    homepage: homepage_typewriter.jpg
categories:
    - literature-and-musings
comments: true
show_meta: false
---

There are so many things in this world; so many things to see, to do, to know.
There are places, people, objects, and thoughts of whose existence I am not even aware.
There is beauty and there is individuality permeating every corner of the planet. There are
adventures awaiting me at every turn.

I want it all – I want to know it all.
To know something, to really know something is to love it; to embrace it fully
and with no regrets. But there is so much to know that it cannot all fit into the intricate
folds of my brain all at the same time. Therefore, to know everything, I must abandon
other things.

The fear and sadness I feel when I abandon something I know and love is
overpowering, but more enticing is the solitary trip on an airplane. The vista from the
window is unparalleled as I fly high above rolling seas of clouds. The sun reflects off the
crests of the vaporous waves, creating a transcendent scene. The blue sky stretches
infinitely above me until it fades into the black abyss of uncharted space. It reminds me
that I have much left to know; it softens the blow I feel when abandoning my latest
passion.

I hope that I see the horizon superseded by a plane wing often. I hope that I
always have an open mind. I hope that the joy of discovering something new never leaves
my mentality. I hope that the beauty of the world is always as overwhelming as the first
And I hope that someday in the very distant future, I will have abandoned
everything.
