layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Simple Server Rundown"
subheadline: "Interesting Thoughts"
teaser: "A friend of mine recently decided to forgoe paying Digital Ocean and other similar services for their server space and instead create and host is own server. Her argued that the price for two servers from 2011 that he found on craigslist would, within a few months, be profitable for him and his startup."

header:
    image: homepage_typography.jpg
    background-color: "#262930"
    caption_url: https://unsplash.com/
image:
    thumb:  homepage_typography-thumb.jpg
    homepage: homepage_typography.jpg
    caption: Image by Antonio
    caption_url: "http://www.aisleone.net/"
categories:
    - code

published: false
---

I had stopped by to ask my friend some questions I had in the C book that I am reading when he asked if I could lend a hand in removing one of the servers from the rack. I was shocked how heavy it was! We took it off the rack and brought it to the dining table. While I began to brew some coffee he started to remove the back paneling of the server in order to expose its guts and the mechanics that laid on the inside. Before today, I had absolutely no concept of what servers actually were, just a fuzzy concept that they stored information.

My friend gave me a basic tour of what constitutes a server and why it is built the way it is. At first glance, the insides looked like a metropolice of tiny silver roads and buildings all laid out beautifully on a green field. As my friend explained the parts and pieces, I couldn't help but be reminded of the symmetry this hardware had to the human cell and body. The largest metallic box in the back left of the server was where the power is housed - the mitochondria of the server - while all the tiny silver roads were the neurons that acted as the transporters for electricity and information.

My friend explained to me that many pieces of the server could be easily removed and replaced, in case one of hte pieces b