---
layout: page
title:  "Journal Entry"
subheadline:  "Work by Charlotte Newell"
teaser: "Little to no light pervaded the cramped aisles of Paddy Murphy's Irish Bar and Restaurant, making it difficult for me to keep up with my friends.  To compensate for the darkness, old yellowing lamps were suspended from the ceiling, doing far more harm than good as they illuminated the wisps of smoke creeping into my unwilling lungs and the browning, blotchy alcohol stains dotting the carpet. People's faces looked like the moon – half encased in shadow, half illuminated by the dim light. The faces I was able to see were either half-hidden behind a pint of beer or distorted in raucous laughter. The older girls strode confidently to the back of the bar, completely unaffected by the taunts and barks of laughter from the drunkards.

I was terrified."

categories:
  - literature-and-musings

tags:

header:
    image: header_unsplash_2-970x.jpg
    pattern: pattern_concrete.jpg
    caption: This is a caption for the header image with link
    caption_url: https://unsplash.com/

image:
    thumb: "gallery-example-5.jpg"

gallery:
    - image_url: gallery-example-5.jpg
      caption: Great images by Unsplash.com

---

Little to no light pervaded the cramped aisles of Paddy Murphy's Irish Bar and Restaurant, making it difficult for me to keep up with my friends.  To compensate for the darkness, old yellowing lamps were suspended from the ceiling, doing far more harm than good as they illuminated the wisps of smoke creeping into my unwilling lungs and the browning, blotchy alcohol stains dotting the carpet. People's faces looked like the moon – half encased in shadow, half illuminated by the dim light. The faces I was able to see were either half-hidden behind a pint of beer or distorted in raucous laughter. The older girls strode confidently to the back of the bar, completely unaffected by the taunts and barks of laughter from the drunkards.

I was terrified.

Rather than following the other girls, I grabbed my mom's hand and determinedly marched out of the sea of alcohol and smoke. I took gasping breaths once we were out in the fresh air, trying to cleanse my lungs of the blackness, determined not to go back inside. After some calming and carefully placed words from my mom and my dance teacher, I reluctantly consented to return to the darkened cavern.

I snuck to the back of the bar with the other girls who were already in the process of changing. When we were all changed and the music started, I took a deep breath before stepping onto the tiny carpeted area designated as a dance floor. The notes of the music swooped through the air, mingling with the curls of smoke while the inebriated spectators attempted to clap in time with the music. Their catcalls shifted from jeering to encouraging to excited as they were enchanted by our dancing. I was no longer terrified; I was at home.

Fear not, gentle reader – I am not an exotic dancer. Irish Dance has been an integral part of my life since that moment ten years ago when I immersed myself in the crowd at Paddy Murphy's. My dancing school, the Tir Na Nog Academy of Irish Dance, is unique in that we are not a competitive dancing school. Rather than participating in Irish Dance competitions, we dance at bars like Paddy Murphy's, or at Oktoberfest parties, country clubs, weddings, parties, or even Irish wakes. The shows at country clubs and weddings are closest to what I expected when I first started dancing: polished wood floors surrounded by cultured audiences calmly watching the skillful movements of my feet.

Over the years, however, I have come to infinitely prefer the beer-stained carpets of Irish bars and restaurants and their rowdy inhabitants. Sometimes, if I close my eyes while dancing at Paddy Murphy's or Fitzgerald's, I can imagine that I am in Ireland – that if I walked outside, I wouldn't see the Mediterranean architecture of Naples, but rather the rolling green hills of the Emerald Isle. Through dance, I am transported to another place where all rational thought is suspended and I am left with just feeling; I feel the music beating through my feet, I feel the vibrations from the crowd's erratic clapping, and I feel the freedom and exaltation of Ireland coursing its way through the atmosphere of a small, dank pub in Naples, Florida. This is a feeling that has permeated the souls of countless people, Irish and not Irish, for hundreds of years. It is a feeling that the coming generations also deserve to feel; it is a feeling that should never disappear.
