---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline:  "Work by Charlotte Newell"
title:  "Joy"
teaser: "The painted piece of cardboard hanging on the wall above my head reads Sherlock Holmes's words: <em> My mind rebels at stagnation...I abhor the dull routine of existence. I crave for mental exaltation.</em> These wavelengths of light shoot at my eyes, traversing the distance from the screen to my eyes in less than a nanosecond. They shoot through my pupil and do a quick summersault before sticking an upside-down landing on the fovea on my retina. Tens across the board, agree the judges. "

categories:
  - literature-and-musings

header:
    image_fullwidth: "unsplash_brooklyn-bridge_header.jpg"
image:
    thumb: "unsplash_brooklyn-bridge-thumb.jpg"
---

The painted piece of cardboard hanging on the wall above my head reads Sherlock Holmes's words: "My mind rebels at stagnation...I abhor the dull routine of existence. I crave for mental exaltation." These wavelengths of light shoot at my eyes, traversing the distance from the screen to my eyes in less than a nanosecond. They shoot through my pupil and do a quick summersault before sticking an upside-down landing on the fovea on my retina. Tens across the board, agree the judges.

Instantaneously, the image is sent down the optic nerve from the front of the brain to the back and the image lands SPLAT against the tiny section at the back of my brain. It is here that the massive net of neurons filters out all of the arbitrary visual information -- my calculator sitting on the desk, the trees I can see out the window, and the keys on my keyboard -- until the only visual objects remaining are the fateful words that glare from the plasma behind my iPad's screen.

There is no time to linger; before you can think to count to one, the signal is sent out of the visual cortex to the angular gyrus which lies in some ambiguous limbo of both the parietal and temporal lobes. Here, the visual becomes auditory in an alchemist's transfiguration of information. Our image shoots deeper into the parietal lobe and soon, it has arrived in Wernicke's Area, which gives meaning to this auditory code.

The image speeds away from Wernicke's Area and soon makes its way to the frontal lobe and Broca's Area. Here, I decide that these words are worth speaking. They are valuable and define me in a way  no others can. With this new objective in mind, the image races toward the motor cortex at the very back of my frontal lobe.

This very last step seems to take forever in the light-speed vortex of my mind. The pulses of energy travel painfully toward its destination. As the image finally reaches the axon terminals of the final neuron, the neurotransmitters can only float serenely to their receptors on the adjacent dendrite. They drift closer until they slot nicely into their respective receptors. At that moment, the slow motion returns to light speed and my mouth contorts itself per the motor cortex's orders and I utter "My mind rebels at stagnation. I crave for mental exaltation."

I close my eyes in ecstasy and joy as I imagine for a second that I can feel each burst of energy shooting through the intricate web of neurons that I call my brain. The whole thing is alight with energy as I conjure up images of science, literature, soccer, and travel while I spurn images of dull, repetitive work. I will make my life interesting and colorful; I will learn everything, especially those things that define me and how I work. "I crave for mental exaltation," I repeat. The words carry the joy they are weighted with to my ears and to my brain.